Freeze online backup demo
=========================

This demo helps you experiment with Berkeley DB's hot backup
capabilities, and shows how to configure Freeze to support hot
backups.

The client program is very simple: it creates an Int to Long Freeze
map, with 10000 elements. The client uses a transaction to update all
the elements with the current date-time (as a number of milliseconds
since the epoch -- 01/01/1970 at 00:00:00 UTC). It also verifies that
the old values are all the same.

This program runs forever: you need to kill it (e.g., with CTRL-C) to
terminate it.


db utility names
----------------

The Berkeley DB utilities are usually named db_hotbackup, db_archive,
db_recover, etc. If you use the Berkeley DB 5.3.21 RPMs or Solaris 
binaries provided by ZeroC, the utility names are db53_hotbackup, 
db53_archive, etc. Please adjust the instructions below accordingly.


Backup
------

While the program is running, you can perform a hot backup with the
backup shell script (on Unix/Linux) or batch file (on Windows).

These two scripts illustrate how to use the Berkeley DB db_hotbackup
utility. For a full description of db_hotbackup, please refer to:

  http://www.oracle.com/technology/documentation/berkeley-db/db/utility/db_hotbackup.html

The following command creates a full backup (both data and log files)
in the 'hotbackup' directory:

 $ ./backup full

Or on Windows:

 > backup full

Alternatively, you can perform an incremental backup, which only moves
and copies log files to the hotbackup directory:

 $ ./backup incremental

Or on Windows:

 > backup incremental

Note that the Ice configuration file (named config) disables the
automatic deletion of old log files:

Freeze.DbEnv.backup.OldLogsAutoDelete=0

The file also sets DbPrivate to 0 to allow db_archive to access the db
environment while the client is running:

Freeze.DbEnv.backup.DbPrivate=0

The db/DB_CONFIG file is used to put the data files and log files in
different subdirectories, which simplifies archiving.


Recovery
--------

After a successful backup, the hotbackup directory always contains
a full backup that is ready to use. To switch over to this backup, you
only need to do the following:

 1. Make sure the client is not running.

 2. Move the old 'db' directory out of the way:

    $ mv db db.old

    Or on Windows:

    > move db db.old

 3. Move or copy the hotbackup directory to db:

    $ cp -R hotbackup db

    Or on Windows:

    > xcopy /s hotbackup db\

If you have recent uncorrupted log files in your original db
directory, you can also copy these log files over your restored log
files and perform a catastrophic recovery to recover these updates.

With the example above:
 
  $ cp db.old/logs/log.* db/logs
  $ db_recover -c -h db

Or on Windows:

  > xcopy /y db.old\logs\log.* db\logs
  > db_recover -c -h db

Finally, restart the client.
